index.md, before:

---
layout: home
title: FPGA VGA Driver Project
tags: fpga vga verilog
categories: demo
---

This is my write up on my SOC FPGA Project. It details the steps taken to display a 640x480 image over VGA using the Basys 3 development board.


## **Template VGA Design**
### **Project Set-Up**

<img src="docs/assets/images/VGAProject.png">

### **Template Code**

For the project we received a project template. This tempate included all the files needed to display colour strips on the monitor. The template included three files.
 - VGATop.v
    - The top level verilog file. This calls all the other modules and connects the signals in between them.
 - VGASync.v
    - Creates the signals for VGA to work. A horizonal sync and verital sync signals are generated here. These signals are directly sent to the monitor. A pulse on the horisontal sync signifys the end of the line, while a pulse on the vertical sync means the end of a full frame.
 - VGAColourCycle.v
    - Generates the colour data for displaying on the screen. As the name suggests it cycles through a few colors.
 - Basys3_Master.xdc
    - Constraints file for the board. Needed to set up the switch for the reset, the outputs for the VGA connector and for the clock.
 - Testbench.v
    - Test bench used to see if the design works correctly.

### **Synthesis**
Synthesis and Im is the process of converting the verilog implementation
### **Demonstration**
Perhaps add a picture of your demo. Guideline: 1/2 sentences.

## **My VGA Design Edit**
Introduce your own design idea. Consider how complex/achievabble this might be or otherwise. Reference any research you do online (use hyperlinks).
### **Code Adaptation**
Briefly show how you changed the template code to display a different image. Demonstrate your understanding. Guideline: 1-2 short paragraphs.
### **Simulation**
Show how you simulated your own design. Are there any things to note? Demonstrate your understanding. Add a screenshot. Guideline: 1-2 short paragraphs.
### **Synthesis**
Describe the synthesis & implementation outputs for your design, are there any differences to that of the original design? Guideline 1-2 short paragraphs.
### **Demonstration**
If you get your own design working on the Basys3 board, take a picture! Guideline: 1-2 sentences.

## **More Markdown Basics**
This is a paragraph. Add an empty line to start a new paragraph.

Font can be emphasised as *Italic* or **Bold**.

Code can be highlighted by using `backticks`.

Hyperlinks look like this: [GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/).

A bullet list can be rendered as follows:
- vectors
- algorithms
- iterators

Images can be added by uploading them to the repository in a /docs/assets/images folder, and then rendering using HTML via githubusercontent.com as shown in the example below.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/melgineer/fpga-vga-verilog/main/docs/assets/images/VGAPrjSrcs.png">

Commit message:

Worked on blog and added C files

index.md, after:

---
layout: home
title: FPGA VGA Driver Project
tags: fpga vga verilog
categories: demo
---

This is my write up on my SOC FPGA Project. It details the steps taken to display a 640x480 image over VGA using the Basys 3 development board.


## **Template VGA Design**
### **Project Set-Up**

<img src="docs/assets/images/VGAProject.png">

### **Template Code**

For the project we received a project template. This tempate included all the files needed to display colour strips on the monitor. The template included three files.
 - VGATop.v
    - The top level verilog file. This calls all the other modules and connects the signals in between them.
 - VGASync.v
    - Creates the signals for VGA to work. A horizonal sync and verital sync signals are generated here. These signals are directly sent to the monitor. A pulse on the horisontal sync signifys the end of the line, while a pulse on the vertical sync means the end of a full frame.
 - VGAColourCycle.v
    - Generates the colour data for displaying on the screen. As the name suggests it cycles through a few colors.
 - Basys3_Master.xdc
    - Constraints file for the board. Needed to set up the switch for the reset, the outputs for the VGA connector and for the clock.
 - Testbench.v
    - Test bench used to see if the design works correctly.

### **Synthesis**
Synthesis is the process of converting the high level code to logic that the FPGA can implement. This process decides on what compoents on the FPGA to use such as DSP's or block ram.

Implementation is responsible for picking the hardware to use on the board and routing signals.

### **Demonstration**
The template code cycles through a few colours.

## **My VGA Design Edit**
My idea was to use the memory on the FPGA to store pixel data of an image. It would take the rows and columns as inputs and output the 12 bit colour value. 4 bits each for red, blue and green. The idea is not too complex as at its core its just a very large look up table.


I researched how to load large ammounts of data into a verilog file and found the `$readmemh` function this allowed the reading in of a memory file into memory.

But first I needed a file to load. So I created a program to create a memory file filled with one colour value. And then manually changed a few values to a different colour. This worked and producded the following image

<img src="docs/assets/images/colourfill.jpg">

I knew it was working as I could change values in the memory file and the changes would be reflected on the screen.









Introduce your own design idea. Consider how complex/achievabble this might be or otherwise. Reference any research you do online (use hyperlinks).
### **Code Adaptation**
Briefly show how you changed the template code to display a different image. Demonstrate your understanding. Guideline: 1-2 short paragraphs.
### **Simulation**
Show how you simulated your own design. Are there any things to note? Demonstrate your understanding. Add a screenshot. Guideline: 1-2 short paragraphs.
### **Synthesis**
Describe the synthesis & implementation outputs for your design, are there any differences to that of the original design? Guideline 1-2 short paragraphs.
### **Demonstration**
If you get your own design working on the Basys3 board, take a picture! Guideline: 1-2 sentences.

## **More Markdown Basics**
This is a paragraph. Add an empty line to start a new paragraph.

Font can be emphasised as *Italic* or **Bold**.

Code can be highlighted by using `backticks`.

Hyperlinks look like this: [GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/).

A bullet list can be rendered as follows:
- vectors
- algorithms
- iterators

Images can be added by uploading them to the repository in a /docs/assets/images folder, and then rendering using HTML via githubusercontent.com as shown in the example below.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/melgineer/fpga-vga-verilog/main/docs/assets/images/VGAPrjSrcs.png">
